These tips will help you prepare for the big day of your professional interview! Follow these tips and you'll get through the big interview with flying colors! Whether you have a mock interview, or are starting to prepare for your professional career, practice these tips to properly prepare for the big day! 

1) Dressing the Part 
In order to impress the company you're interviewing with, you must dress accordingly. Wearing business attire, suites, a nice dress, or a pantsuit if you're a girl, you want to avoid dressing in your normal day clothes, including yoga pants. 

Always wear the appropriate attire, and make sure to wear professional business attire as well as to practice good hygiene and present yourself like you want the company to see you.

2) Review the Questions The Interviewers Will Ask You 
Make sure to prepare a list of questions that could possibly be asked by the interviewer. You can practice your interviewing skills with a friend, or you could sign up for an interview with Interviewstream through the Pomerantz Career Center. The Interviewstream will ask questions assimilated with actual professional interviews, and you will get to see the feedback from your interview. All you need is a camera, or you can even schedule an interview in the interview stream room at the Pomerantz Career Center! 

3) Do Enough Research on the Company
Review the website for the company you're applying for and make sure to write down facts you find interesting and questions you want answered by the interviewer in the company. 

4) Be Respectful of the Interviewers 
Give the utmost respect for interviewers that are conducting the interview and asking you the questions. The people are always writing notes about your answers and your behavior. This is their first impression of you besides what's on your resume, you want to make sure leave a lasting positive impression to the company! 

5) Good Non-Verbal Behavior 
Keep eye contact with the interviewer during the interviewer 
Make sure to always sit upright and be open with your body posture 
Look interested in all the questions the interviewer is asking you 
6) Be On Time to the Interview
Make sure to arrive at least 10 minutes early to the Interview. The company will appreciate timeliness and being prompt. It will also give you a chance to go over what your responses to the questions are as well as to make sure you look good and feel good! 

7) Know all the Credentials of the Company and the Job you're Applying For
Make sure to know all of the aspects and qualifications of the job you're applying for. You want to bring up any qualifications you have regarding what you think you can bring to the table for the company in the interview. 

8) Bring Extra Resumes
Make sure to bring extra resumes to the interview just in case the company needs another copy. If you also have a portfolio, you can bring that as well to showcase some of your previous work and achievements. 

9) Speak with Energy and Provide True Details
Make sure to always have a lot of positive energy and only provide true details about your previous employment or achievements. DO NOT LIE about anything in your interview. A company won't want to hire someone on false information. 

10) Writing Thank You Letters Immediately After the Interview
Make sure to thank your interviewers for their time and consideration in reviewing them for the job opportunity. Make sure to follow up with the interviewers and the company as well after you finish your interview. 

By following these tips, you'll rock your interview and make sure to wow the company and hopefully seal the deal and get a job! 
